feat: Add documentation for onboarding validators (#27)
gnoverse/gnops: content/english/articles/effective-gnops/onboarding-testnet-validator/index.md

---

> title: Onboarding a testnet validator

Reviewer: This should probably be named `Road to Validation: How to become a testnet validator`.

And we should move this to the howto guides, it's not an `effective-gnops` article 🙏

Author: done in https://github.com/gnoverse/gnops/pull/27/commits/6f4e1f77b426dc6f69c79fd9afd974e064d944f4 and https://github.com/gnoverse/gnops/pull/27/commits/60cc93e77ccb323ed95dc629fccec9cf3b7e95b7

publishDate: 2025-03-14T08:00:00-01:00
translationKey: "bootnodes-persistent-peers"
tags: ["validator", "valopers", "testnet", "onboarding"]
level: Intermediate
author: d4ryl00

> summary: "This give a set of information on onboarding a validator node: how to register as a valoper in the registry and how to submit a validator proposal"

Author: fixed in https://github.com/gnoverse/gnops/pull/27/commits/e1669930dba2e1f5ec53eea33b61119455f8eac2

---

# Setting Up a Validator Node in gno.land

## Overview

Validators on **gno.land** are expected to demonstrate their technical expertise and alignment with the project by making continuous and meaningful contributions. **gno.land** abstracts validator management into the `r/sys/vals` realm as a form of a smart contract for modularity.

> This guide walks you through the process of registering your validator node into the validator set with a smart-contract. It assumes that you already have an operational validator node running on the testnet. If not, follow [this guide](https://gnops.io/articles/guides/remote-chain/).

Reviewer: `It assumes that you already have an operational validator node running on the testnet, before submitting a proposal to formally validate the chain`

Author: done in https://github.com/gnoverse/gnops/pull/27/commits/6f4e1f77b426dc6f69c79fd9afd974e064d944f4

> ## Step 1: Creating a `Valoper` object

Reviewer: `Step 1: Registering a valoper profile`

> To be added to the validator set, you must create a **Valoper** object and register it in the `r/gnoland/valopers` realm using the `Register` function. This object allows you to demonstrate to **GovDAO members** why you should be accepted as a validator.

Reviewer: `To be considered to be added to the validator set`

Author: done in https://github.com/gnoverse/gnops/pull/27/commits/6f4e1f77b426dc6f69c79fd9afd974e064d944f4

> ### Information to Include in the `Valoper` object

Reviewer: `valoper` proposal

Be sure to follow the instructions inside the valopers realm. This is an example of the details you should provide in your description:

1. **Validator Name** – Your unique identifier.
2. **Networks You Are Currently Validating** – Include your total Assets Under Management (AuM).
3. **Links to Your Digital Presence** – Website, social media, etc.
4. **Contact Details** – How others can reach you.
5. **Why You Are Interested in Validating on gno.land** – Your motivation and goals.
6. **Contributions to gno.land** – Past contributions or plans for future contributions.

_Note:_ You can update your `Valoper` object later using the `Update` helper functions such as `UpdateDescription`.

> ## Step 2: Registering Your Validator

Reviewer: `Validator Profile`

Author: done in https://github.com/gnoverse/gnops/pull/27/commits/6f4e1f77b426dc6f69c79fd9afd974e064d944f4

> Once your `Valoper` object is prepared, register it using `gnokey` with the following command:

Reviewer: `object` -> `profile`

Author: done in https://github.com/gnoverse/gnops/pull/27/commits/6f4e1f77b426dc6f69c79fd9afd974e064d944f4

```sh
gnokey maketx call \
    -pkgpath "gno.land/r/gnoland/valopers" \
    -func "Register" \
    -gas-fee 1000000ugnot \
    -gas-wanted 30000000 \
    -send "20000000ugnot" \
    -broadcast \

>     -chainid "dev" \

Reviewer: Chain ID should be `test6`, or `gno`.
Add a comment below that this might change

Author: done in https://github.com/gnoverse/gnops/pull/27/commits/6f4e1f77b426dc6f69c79fd9afd974e064d944f4

I also put `The chainid and remote values might change. Please check the latest information.`

    -args "<moniker>" \
    -args "<description>" \
    -args "<validator_address>" \
    -args "<public_key_validator>" \

>     -remote "https://rpc.gno.land:443" \

Reviewer: Also note that this is for a specific network

Author: same comment as before

    <key-name>
```

Replace `<moniker>`, `<description>`, `<validator_address>`, `<public_key_validator>`, and `<key-name>` with your actual values.

## Step 3: Submitting the Proposal

> Once your `Valoper` object is ready, you, as the validator, can create a proposal to add yourself to the validator set. Use the following command:

Reviewer: `anyone can submit a proposal to add you to the validator set`

Author: done in https://github.com/gnoverse/gnops/commit/6f4e1f77b426dc6f69c79fd9afd974e064d944f4

```sh
gnokey maketx call \
  -pkgpath "gno.land/r/gnoland/valopers_proposal" \
  -func "ProposeNewValidator" \
  -gas-fee 1000000ugnot \
  -gas-wanted 20000000 \

>   -send "100000000ugnot" \

Reviewer: Explain what this is for

Author: done in https://github.com/gnoverse/gnops/commit/6f4e1f77b426dc6f69c79fd9afd974e064d944f4

I put `To prevent abuse, you have to send 100000000ugnot to the realm to submit the proposal.`

  -broadcast \

>   -chainid "dev" \

Reviewer: Same comment as above

Author: done in https://github.com/gnoverse/gnops/commit/6f4e1f77b426dc6f69c79fd9afd974e064d944f4

---

# Setting Up a Validator Node in gno.land

## Overview

Validators on **gno.land** are expected to demonstrate their technical expertise and alignment with the project by making continuous and meaningful contributions. **gno.land** abstracts validator management into the `r/sys/vals` realm as a form of a smart contract for modularity.

This guide walks you through the process of registering your validator node into the validator set with a smart-contract. It assumes that you already have an operational validator node running on the testnet. If not, follow [this guide](https://docs.gno.land/gno-infrastructure/validators/validators-running-a-validator) (especially the section "Connect to an Existing Gno Chain").

## Step 1: Creating a `Valoper` object

To be added to the validator set, you must create a **Valoper** object and register it in the `r/gnoland/valopers` realm using the `Register` function. This object allows you to demonstrate to **GovDAO members** why you should be accepted as a validator.

### Information to Include in the `Valoper` object

> Ensure to follow the instruction inside the valopers realm. This is an example of details you should provide in your description:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Be sure to follow the instructions inside the valopers realm. This is an example of the details you should provide in your description:
```

Author: fixed in https://github.com/gnoverse/gnops/pull/27/commits/6de91741a5b04b82d09bb30444378d62cb296d94

1. **Validator Name** – Your unique identifier.
2. **Networks You Are Currently Validating** – Include your total Assets Under Management (AuM).
3. **Links to Your Digital Presence** – Website, social media, etc.
4. **Contact Details** – How others can reach you.
5. **Why You Are Interested in Validating on gno.land** – Your motivation and goals.
6. **Contributions to gno.land** – Past contributions or plans for future contributions.

> _Note:_ You can update your `Valoper` object later using the `update` helper function.

Author: fixed in https://github.com/gnoverse/gnops/pull/27/commits/6de91741a5b04b82d09bb30444378d62cb296d94
